Add notes and questions for #29775 (Testnet 4) (#765)
bitcoin-core-review-club/website: _posts/2024-07-03-#29775.md

title: "Testnet4 including PoW difficulty adjustment fix"
pr: 29775
authors: [fjahr]
components: ["tests", "consensus"]
host: fjahr
status: upcoming
commit:
---

_Notes and questions to follow soon!_

> 

Reviewer: Need to delete this line

Author: done

## Notes

- Recommended reading:
    - Please also try to [read the BIP PR](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/pull/1601) and, if possible, review it in tandem with the PR. The BIP and the PR should be in sync with each other and ideally the BIP should be a clear description of the key parts of the PR.
    - Testnet reset [discussion on the mailing list](https://groups.google.com/g/bitcoindev/c/9bL00vRj7OU).
    - A helpful [deep dive into the block storm bug by Jameson Lopp](https://blog.lopp.net/the-block-storms-of-bitcoins-testnet/).
    - A great [explanation of the timewarp attack on Bitcoin SE by David Harding](https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/questions/75831/what-is-time-warp-attack-and-how-does-it-work-in-general/75834#75834)

> - Bitcoin core supports three test networks out of the box: Regtest, Testnet, and Signet. There also exist some custom Signet variants like Mutinynet. At this point, the current Testnet has been running for 12 years. Pepperidge Farm remembers that this is not the original Testnet though, it is actually Testnet 3. It was introduced in [PR #1392](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/1392). Documentation on how exactly Testnet 1 and 2 broke is not available but it appears that they fell victim to high fluctuation in mining power. Remember that around this time the first ASIC miners entered the market while Testnet was probably still mostly mined by CPUs and maybe the occasional GPU.

Reviewer: Reference is a tad bit confusing 😅 

```suggestion
- Bitcoin core supports three test networks out of the box: Regtest, Testnet, and Signet. There also exist some custom Signet variants like Mutinynet. At this point, the current Testnet has been running for 12 years. However, the current Testnet is actually Testnet 3. It was introduced in [PR #1392](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/1392). Documentation on how exactly Testnet 1 and 2 broke is not available but it appears that they fell victim to high fluctuation in mining power. Remember that around this time the first ASIC miners entered the market while Testnet was probably still mostly mined by CPUs and maybe the occasional GPU.
```

Author: done 😢

- Testnet 4 still includes the 20-min exception but adds a mitigation for the block storm issue.
- The pull request also includes a fix for the timewarp attack, an attack that is still possible on mainnet today. A fix for this was proposed as part of the [Great Consensus Cleanup](https://bitcoinops.org/en/topics/consensus-cleanup-soft-fork/) but failed to get the necessary support as a softfork so far.

## Questions

1. Did you review the PR? [Concept ACK, approach ACK, tested ACK, or NACK](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#peer-review)? What was your review approach?

> -->

Reviewer: Could have a "why reset Testnet" question?

Author: added

6. How is the block storm bug fixed in the PR? What other fixes were discussed in the PR?

> 7. Why was the time warp fix included in the PR?

Reviewer: Might be helpful to link to a place where you stated why

Author: I assumed you didn't want me to link directly to the comment since that would make it too easy :) I added a vague hint.
